
Article 3 
WE AFFIRM that God created Adam and Eve, the first human beings, in his own image, equal 
before God as persons, and distinct as male and female. 

WE DENY that the divinely ordained differences between male and female render them unequal 
in dignity or worth. 


Nashville Statement


Article 4 
WE AFFIRM that divinely ordained differences between male and female reflect God’s original 
creation design and are meant for human good and human flourishing. 

WE DENY that such differences are a result of the Fall or are a tragedy to be overcome. 


Nashville Statement

Article 5 
WE AFFIRM that the differences between male and female reproductive structures are integral 
to God’s design for self-conception as male or female. 

WE DENY that physical anomalies or psychological conditions nullify the God-appointed link 
between biological sex and self-conception as male or female. 


Nashville Statement
Article 6 
WE AFFIRM that those born with a physical disorder of sex development are created in the 
image of God and have dignity and worth equal to all other image-bearers. They are 
acknowledged by our Lord Jesus in his words about “eunuchs who were born that way from 
their mother's womb.” With all others they are welcome as faithful followers of Jesus Christ and 
should embrace their biological sex insofar as it may be known. 

WE DENY that ambiguities related to a person’s biological sex render one incapable of living a 
fruitful life in joyful obedience to Christ. 
Nashville Statement

Article 7 
WE AFFIRM that self-conception as male or female should be defined by God’s holy purposes in 
creation and redemption as revealed in Scripture. 

WE DENY that adopting a homosexual or transgender self-conception is consistent with God’s 
holy purposes in creation and redemption. 


Nashville Statement
The intent of recent discussions about banning seven specific words or phrases is unclear. 
There is growing concern that this list is not merely suggestions to make budget proposals 
more likely to pass a conservative Office of Management and Budget and Congress but really a 
further creep of ideology over science that is an alarming hallmark of this administration. We as 
nurses know that words matter.
Frowning on the use of “diversity” is a nod to white nationalism. Excluding “transgender” from 
our dialogue denies a population most at risk for health disparities. Prohibiting the word “fetus” 
and using “unborn child” is not only scientifically inaccurate, but also a bow to the right-to-life 
movement and a threat to women’s reproductive rights.
Carole Treston and Jeffrey Kwong
The Department of Health and Human Services tried to play down on Saturday a report that 
officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had been barred from using seven 
words or phrases, including “science-based,” “fetus,” “transgender” and “vulnerable,” in 
agency budget documents.
“The assertion that H.H.S. has ‘banned words’ is a complete mischaracterization of discussions 
regarding the budget formulation process,” an agency spokesman, Matt Lloyd, said in an email. 
“H.H.S. will continue to use the best scientific evidence available to improve the health of all 
Americans. H.H.S. also strongly encourages the use of outcome and evidence data in program 
evaluations and budget decisions.”
Sheila Kaplan and Donald G. McNeil Jr.



The Trump administration issued new guidance outlining which restrooms transgender students 
can use, potentially sowing confusion in schools, angering LGBTQ rights groups and adding 
uncertainty to a widely discussed case due to come before the U.S. Supreme Court next month.



Greg Toppo


In case you had any doubt about my opinion on this topic, I do not want trans people in the 
military because I do not want the US military to exist. I will never struggle for anyone to have a 
job that is fundamentally about killing people, be that the military or the police. We need a 
global trans solidarity movement, where lives in Afghanistan, Palestine and Colombia are just as 
precious as lives in the US. 


Micha Cárdenas 

I am working for an anticolonial, anti-imperial vision of trans liberation, and an end to all wars. 
Trans health care is a life saving necessity, not a burden. How many billions of dollars are made 
in profit from defense contractors? War is just another cruel, intolerable part of how capitalism 
functions. A few rich white men profit immensely off of the deaths of millions of people every 
day. I will never struggle for anyone to have the “right” to be part of that system. Let's work for 
decolonization and global sustainability with global equity, two necessary goals that can create 
huge amounts of ethical jobs for trans people and everyone else.

Micha Cárdenas
A federal judge in Mississippi has sentenced a Gulfport man to 49 years in prison for murdering 
a transgender teenager, in the first-ever hate crime prosecution involving a transgender victim. 
Joshua Vallum, who pleaded guilty in 2015 to killing 17-year-old Mercedes Williamson, was 
sentenced under the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr., Hate Crimes Prevention Act. In a 
statement, Attorney General Jeff Sessions praised the sentencing—even though then-Senator 
Sessions voted against the hate crimes bill in 2009. Williamson was one of at least 21 
transgender people murdered in the U.S. in 2015. So far this year, at least 10 transgender 
people have been murdered nationwide.

Democracy Now
In Virginia’s Prince William County, Democrat Danica Roem is set to become the nation’s first 
openly transgender state lawmaker, after she was elected to represent the 13th District of 
Virginia’s House of Delegates. This is the former journalist Danica Roem speaking ahead of 
Tuesday’s election.

Danica Roem: “It shouldn’t be a revolutionary act to say, 'This is who I am. This is why I'm well 
qualified for office, as a longtime local reporter and as a lifelong resident of the district I’m 
running to represent.’ It shouldn’t be revolutionary to have to say, like, 'And I'm transgender.’ It 
is, yes, I am all of these things.”
Democracy Now

In this premillennial period many taken for granted “truths” have begun to be questioned by 
people. Traditional beliefs about one's sexual identity, orientation, and self-expression are being 
questioned. Individuals that may have once been labeled deviant or mentally ill are now 
becoming more organized and more political. Deviancy is no longer seen as a source of stigma 
but as a source of personal and collective identity; examples include gay and lesbian groups, 
and the transgender organizations (crossdressers and transsexuals). 


Emilio L. Lombardi
Diagnostic Features
Individuals with gender dysphoria have a marked incongruence between the gender they have 
been assigned to (usually at birth, referred to as natal gender) and their experienced/expressed 
gender. This discrepancy is the core component of the diagnosis. There must also be evidence 
of distress about this incongruence. Experienced gender may include alternative gender 
identities beyond binary stereotypes. Consequently, the distress is not limited to a desire to 
simply be of the other gender, but may include a desire to be of an alternative gender, provided 
that it differs from the individual’s assigned gender.

DSM V
Diagnostic Features
The diagnosis of transvestic disorder does not apply to all individuals who dress as the 
opposite sex, even those who do so habitually. It applies to individuals whose cross-dressing or 
thoughts of cross-dressing are always or often accompanied by sexual excitement (Criterion A) 
and who are emotionally distressed by this pattern or feel it impairs social or interpersonal 
functioning (Criterion B). The cross-dressing may involve only one or two articles of clothing 
(e.g., for men, it may pertain only to women’s undergarments), or it may involve dressing 
completely in the inner and outer garments of the other sex and (in men) may include the use of 
women’s wigs and make-up. Transvestic disorder is nearly exclusively reported in males.
DSM V
The Paraphilias are characterized by recurrent, intense sexual urges, fantasies, or behaviors 
that involve unusual objects, activities, or situations and cause clinically significant distress or 
impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. The Paraphilias 
include Exhibitionism, Fetishism, Frotteurism, Pedophilia, Sexual Masochism, Sexual Sadism, 
Transvestic Fetishism, Voyeurism, and Paraphilia Not Otherwise Specified. 

Gender Identity Disorders are characterized by strong and persistent cross-gender 
identification accompanied by persistent discomfort with one's assigned sex.

DSM IV

GENDER IDENTITY DISORDERS 
The essential feature of the disorders included in this subclass is an incongruence between 
anatomic sex and gender identity. Gender identity is the sense of knowing to which sex one 
belongs, that is, the awareness that “I am a male” or “I am a female.” Gender identity is the 
private experience of gender role, and gender role is the public expression of gender identity. 
Gender role can be defined as everything that one says and does, including sexual arousal, to 
indicate to others or to the self the degree to which one is male or female. 

DSM III


Disturbance in gender identity is rare, and should not be confused with the far more common 
phenomena of feelings of inadequacy in fulfilling the expectations associated with one's gender 
role. An example would be an individual who perceives himself or herself as being sexually 
unattractive yet experiences himself or herself unambiguously as a man or woman in 
accordance with his or her anatomic sex.


DSM III

I think the whole problem of gender in the world is about our experiences. It’s not about how we 
wear our hair or whether we have a vagina or a penis. It’s about the way the world treats us, and 
I think if you’ve lived in the world as a man with the privileges that the world accords to men 
and then sort of change gender, it’s difficult for me to accept that then we can equate your 
experience with the experience of a woman who has lived from the beginning as a woman and 
who has not been accorded those privileges that men are.


Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie

I think the impulse to say that trans women are women just like women born female are women 
comes from a need to make trans issues mainstream. Because by making them mainstream, we 
might reduce the many oppressions they experience.

But it feels disingenuous to me. The intent is a good one but the strategy feels untrue. Diversity 
does not have to mean division.


Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
Perhaps I should have said trans women are trans women and cis women are cis women and all 
are women. Except that 'cis' is not an organic part of my vocabulary. And would probably not be 
understood by a majority of people. Because saying ‘trans’ and ‘cis’ acknowledges that there is 
a distinction between women born female and women who transition, without elevating one or 
the other, which was my point.

I have and will continue to stand up for the rights of transgender people. Not merely because of 
the violence they experience but because they are equal human beings deserving to be what 
they are.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
Dear Chelsea Thompto:
Nice to meet you. Here are your lab results.
Your cholesterol panel results are great - low total/triglycerides and LDL levels, along with a 
nicely elevated HDL (good cholesterol).
Your electrolytes, blood glucose and kidney tests are all normal.
Your Estradiol level is higher than the normal male range listed. The normal female range (your 
age group) is 100 - 200. Thus, you could increase your Estradiol dose if you were interested, 
but also fine to stay where you are.
Let me know if you have any questions/concerns.
RL Byers MD
Dear Chelsea Thompto:

Overall the hormone levels look fine. I don't see a concern per se as long as you are happy with 
how your body is feeling. Let me know what thoughts or concerns you have.

E2 - estradiol level is a little lower than previous (was about 62 before)

T level is in the low range of normal for cis men. J(we don't have any previous T levels so I don't 
know if this is a change). This level seems to be working for you in terms of sexual function.
Louise Latterell MD
How does the transnational expansion of “transgender” as a rubric of identity and activism 
appear when we look at the phenomenon from the vantage point of communities and social 
movements of gender-variant persons in the global South, specifically South Asia? This essay is 
a set of reflections arising out of prolonged conversations in which we compared notes on our 
respective experiences as activist (Raina) and ethnographer (Aniruddha, henceforth Ani) 
working among, and to different extents belonging to, gender/sexually marginalized 
communities in eastern India. If “decolonization” implies the ability to freely question, critique, 
and, if necessary, reject globalizing discourses or practices, this essay considers the conditions 
of possibility for such critical engagement with then expanding category of transgender.
Aniruddha Dutta and Raina Roy

The parent of a teen girl who is “transitioning” to become a boy is urging the increasing number
of families coping with the radical transgender movement to fight back rather than succumb to 
its ideology.

“It took us completely by surprise,” Kristie Sisson told Breitbart News in an interview. “Because 
Danielle had a normal childhood, did all of the typical girl things – from dressing up like the 


Dr. Susan Berry
“Danielle is going to end up mutilating her body,” she laments. “She wants to have a 
mastectomy. She wants to have a hysterectomy.”

Considerable evidence is mounting that support for “gender transitions,” is imposing 
substantial medical and developmental risks on children.

A growing number of pediatricians, mental health professionals, and gay rights activists are 
warning American parents about the dangers of the new “gender ideology,” which pressures 
parents to impose risky and dangerous treatments on their children.
Dr. Susan Berry
Transgender advocates nationwide are pouring huge amounts of money into northern Virginia 
to defeat a veteran state legislator, GOP Rep Bob Marshall, who openly opposes the 
transgender ideology.

Democrats, transgender donors, gay political groups and the establishment media have united 
behind Danica Roem, who says he is transgender. He has changed his legal sex from male to 
female via Virginia’s paperwork-only sex-change law. He appears in public as a woman, 
complete with make-up.

Neil Munro
Republicans need to quickly learn the politics driving the transgender agenda, Louie Gohmert
told a Capitol Hill audience June 9.

“There is no biological science that supports the transgender agenda,” said Rep. Louie 
Gohmert (R.-Texas), who told the reporters and staffers gathered for the weekly Conversations 
with Conservatives meeting in the Rayburn House Office Building.

“There is no science of any kind,” Gohmert said, adding, “But, I have come to find out there is 
one science that supports the transgender agenda — political science.”
Neil W. Mccabe

…that the law acts in the service of a self-affirming idea of “the normal” when deployed to 
dehumanize transgender people-fashioning transgender bodies as monstrous and using 
rhetoric that resonates with historical moments that involved the colonial classification of 'new' 
legal subjects. At a systemic level, the law fails to recognize liminal subjects; faced with a 
transgender person who challenges traditional categories of normalcy, the law makes his or her 
identity so impossible, invisible, and monstrous as to be outside of the law's protection.


Abigail W. Lloyd
For the most part, in other words, anti-transgender discrimination is not a new or unique form 
of bias, but rather falls squarely within the parameters of discrimination based on sex, sexual 
orientation, and/or disability. From a strictly philosophical or doctrinal perspective, therefore, it 
might well seem that the most logical course would be to seek protection for transgender 
people through litigation under statutes that already prohibit discrimination on those bases, 
rather than attempting, legislatively, to create a new set of statutory protections. In practice, 
however, litigation alone has proved to be a singularly unsuccessful route to winning basic civil
rights protections for transgender people.

Shannon Minter

If you are a trans person, you face horrendous social punishments-from institutionalization to 
gang rape, from beatings to denial of child visitation.... This brutalization and degradation strips 
us of what we could achieve with our individual lifetimes.... No one knows how many trans lives 
have been lost to police brutality and street-comer bashing. The lives of trans people are so 
depreciated in this society that many murders go unreported. And those of us who have 
survived are deeply scarred by daily run-ins with hate, discrimination, and violence. Trans 
people are still literally social outlaws.

Leslie Feinberg

The transsexual body is an unnatural body. It is the product of medical science. It is a 
technological construction. It is flesh torn apart and sewn together again in a shape other than 
that in which it was born. In these circumstances, I find a deep affinity between myself as a 
transsexual woman and the monster in Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein. Like the monster, I am too 
often perceived as less than fully human due to the means of my embodiment; like the 
monster’s as well, my exclusion from human community fuels a deep and abiding rage in me 
that I, like the monster, direct against the conditions in which I must struggle to exist. 

Susan Stryker
The gruesome murder of a transgender teen in Missouri has some wondering why the three
main suspects arrested aren't facing hate crime charges.
Texas County authorities have charged Andrew Vrba, Isis Schauer and Briana Calderas with the 
first-degree murder of 17-year-old Ally Lee Steinfeld, whose family had reported her missing 
earlier this month.
According to police reports, Vrba, 18, admitted to killing Steinfeld and burning her body.		
Schauer and Calderas allegedly helped Vrba hide Steinfeld's body. Schauer and Calderas told 
police Vrba claimed he stabbed the victim's genitals multiple times and gouged her eyes out.

Dakin Andone and Deanna Hackney


As the fashion industry bows to pressure to become more progressive with its casting choices,
a new generation of models from all backgrounds, cultures, genders and sexualities has taken 
to the runways. The transgender community -- for so long underrepresented in fashion -- can 
today count several fashion superstars in its ranks, namely Gucci muse Hari Nef and fashion 
week stalwart Andreja Pejić.


Clive Martin
I want to lay claim to the dark power of my monstrous identity without using it as a weapon 
against others or being wounded by it myself. I will say this as bluntly as I know how: I am a 
transsexual, and therefore I am a monster. Just as the words “dyke,” “fag,” “queer,” “slut,” and 
“whore” have been reclaimed, respectively, by lesbians and gay men, by anti-assimilationist 
sexual minorities, by women who pursue erotic pleasure, and by sex industry workers, words 
like “creature,” “monster,” and “unnatural” need to be reclaimed by the transgendered. By 
embracing and accepting them, even piling one on top of another, we may dispel their ability 
to harm us. 

Susan Stryker
Hearken unto me, fellow creatures. I who have dwelt in a form unmatched with my desire, I 
whose flesh has become an assemblage of incongruous anatomical parts, I who achieve the 
similitude of a natural body only through an unnatural process, I offer you this warning: the 
Nature you bedevil me with is a lie. Do not trust it to protect you from what I represent, for it is a 
fabrication that cloaks the groundlessness of the privilege you seek to maintain for yourself at 
my expense. You are as constructed as me; the same anarchic womb has birthed us both. I call 
upon you to investigate your nature as I have been compelled to confront mine. I challenge you 
to risk abjection and flourish as well as have I. Heed my words, and you may well discover the 
seams and sutures in yourself. 
Susan Stryker
The demand for “dignity and respect” of transsexuals is shot through the Army documents 
because the “transgender ideology” insists that normal Americans — including American 
soldiers — must respect claims by men who insist they are women, regardless of their visible 
genitalia, civic practices, law, and science.
The justification for this transsexual demand is the unproven claim that all people have a so-far 
unverified “gender identity” that can be disconnected from their obviously female or male body. 
Transgender activists then argue that a person’s “gender identity” is more important than the 
fundamental sexual distinctions between male and female humans, and, in fact, also requires 
that the transgender men be treated as legal females, whether or not they have had surgery.
Neil Munro
Transsexual monstrosity, however, along with its affect, transgender rage, can never claim quite 
so secure a means of resistance because of the inability of language to represent the 
transgendered subject’s movement over time between stably gendered positions in a linguistic 
structure. Our situation effectively reverses the one encountered by Frankenstein’s monster. 
Unlike the monster, we often successfully cite the culture’s visual norms of gendered 
embodiment. This citation becomes a subversive resistance when, through a provisional use of 
language, we verbally declare the unnaturalness of our claim to the subject positions we 
nevertheless occupy.

Susan Stryker
New Yorkers came out in droves Wednesday to protest President Donald Trump’s seemingly 
sudden decision to ban transgender people from serving in the U.S. military.

Hundreds rallied in front of the U.S. Army Career Center in Times Square as trans activists and 
allies blasted the president’s discriminatory policy proposal, which he announced in a series of 
tweets early Wednesday morning.

Tanya Walker, a trans woman and U.S. Army veteran, said she was “appalled” by Trump’s 
tweets, and led the crowd in chanting “Shame! Shame! Shame!”
Hayley Miller

Last year North Carolina became infamous for its “bathroom bill,” the now-repealed House Bill 
2, which prohibited people from using the restroom of their choice based on their gender 
identity. (Per a new bill, cities and counties in North Carolina are prohibited from making their 
own anti-discrimination ordinances until 2020.)

In the face of hate crimes and anti-L.G.B.T.Q. laws, travelers are often the most vulnerable: If 
you’re unaware of a state’s laws or unfamiliar with your surroundings, it’s easy to fall into 
dangerous situations.
Joanne Spataro

Hate crimes against L.G.B.T.Q. people went up 20 percent in 2016 in nine metropolitan areas, a 
rise that several studies attributed to last year’s hate-filled election campaign. Last year also 
saw the highest number of violent L.G.B.T.Q. deaths on record. A study from the National 
Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs reported the most common forms of violence against 
L.G.B.T.Q. people were verbal harassment at 20 percent, threats and intimidation at 17 percent 
and physical violence at 11 percent.


Joanne Spataro
Doing a bunch of research into headlines/articles/videos regarding trans issues and I have 
noticed something interesting. It's a bit hard to explain but the best way might be: the 
codification of the word transgender as a way to avoid complicated thoughts and ideas 
regarding gender. Basically, it seems to me that the word transgender in some of it's usages is 
actually doing the opposite of speaking to ideas of moving across, beyond, or through. 
I don't really know what to do with this but when looking through media coverage of trans 
issues in mass, it is quite distinctive. If the goal (for me) is to hold space for non-binary and 
non-static forms of gender and the popular usages of the term “transgender” started to fail 
this task, what can or should be done (if anything) to counteract this reossification of gender?
Chelsea Thompto
Searching out found footage for a piece I am working on and it's amazing to me what a 
seemingly small shift in a word can do for your search results. In youtube, type in 
“transgenderism” instead of “transgender” and you will find a trove of anti-trans content. The 
“ism” in this case operates as a way to delegitimize trans identity through a well established 
and ableist narrative of “disease” and “disorder” marking certain bodies as wrong or sick.

This shit is toxic and really hard to look at but it also helps me understand the rhetorical tools 
being leveraged against me. It makes looking at videos of parents ranting against trans 
students using the bathroom they identity with more legible.
Chelsea Thompto


Throughout my practice, intricate and deliberate systems (numerical and otherwise) are 
employed to create visual form, articulate data, and to allude to our habitual ordering of 
peoples and behaviors. Creating the works within a structured system allows for connections 
between the visual structure and the content of the of the work to speak to the social and 
political structures to which I am responding. 


Chelsea Thompto


In creating these works with a nonlinear structure in mind, the viewer’s conventional modes of 
processing of image and text into understandable and digestible narratives are undercut. Placing 
the viewer in this state to allow for the multidirectional tensions of the various photo, video, 
audio, and textual elements, to be considered as parts of an ever-shifting whole.



Chelsea Thompto


This work, while political, resists giving the viewer a clearly digestible or knowable idea about 
an “ideal” positionality regarding trans issues. Instead, a constellation of relations, positions, 
attitudes, tones, and ideologies are presented through an ever shifting system. This system does 
not inherently construct or destruct meaning but rather gives meaningful elements over to a system 
that may alter meanings based on how they are understood in context.


Chelsea Thompto

These works place the viewer at the center of a node, a point of convergence that examines the 
variety of peoples and organizations who use/embody/manipulate/challenge the term transgender 
and to what effect. Of central concern is the trajectory of the term transgender, is the term’s 
meaning being changed slowly by its usage and if so how is it changing? In placing various 
sources and voices in conversation with one another, the work examines whether an any word that 
seeks to define or describe non-binary gendered embodiment can ever really do that or if it 
instead fails to contain/apprehend all of it’s own iterations/implications.

Chelsea Thompto

But this open letter isn’t for the delusional dudes prancing about town dressed like pinup 
models. It’s to you ladies who allow these hairy-beasted ogres into our club of femininity 
without raising one naturally thin eyebrow. Thereby selling womanhood to the lowest bidder: 
men. Delusional ones. I know I typed “delusional” already. Bears repeating as often as these 
hogs shove their trunks into pantyhose, and tuck their dicks in…wherever, I don’t want to 
visualize let’s move on.


Steven Crowder

The cold biological truth is that sex changes are impossible. Every single cell of the human 
body remains coded with one’s birth gender for life. In a democracy, everyone, no matter how 
nonconformist or eccentric, should be free from harassment and abuse. But at the same time, 
no one deserves special rights, protections, or privileges on the basis of their eccentricity. 
I reject state-sponsored coercion to call someone a “woman” or a “man” simply on the basis of 
his or her subjective feeling about it.


Camille Paglia


“Thanks Sweetie,” he said as I handed it to him. 


Two words: a dismissal, a gendering. I froze, not knowing how to respond. Simultaneously knowing 
that I had been labeled in his mind as a woman and knowing that for him that also meant lesser.


Chelsea Thompto
Be knowable, be likable, be safe, be normal, be just like us.

Want to be known, want to be liked, want to be safe, want to be normal, want to be just like us.
 

APPEAR APPEAR APPEAR

DISAPPEAR DISAPPER DISAPPEAR

Chelsea Thompto



In fact, I’ve turned down thousands from colleges and corporations because I refuse to engage 
in Trans 101. Trans folk, especially of color, should not be obligated to help cis folk play catch-
up on our experiences. The effort can detract from our work to protect and liberate ourselves.



Janet Mock
they will tell you to be yourself & then they will punish you when you are. they will encourage 
you to pursue your dreams & then when you do they will call you selfish. they will create marketing
campaigns, slogans, video reels that tell you to live your truth, but there will be no flowers when
you do. there will be loneliness. there will be fear. there may even be violence. my entire life i 
was told to “express myself” & then when i did people couldn’t handle it. i was told that 
*coming out* would make me happy & then i got bashed & no one seemed to care. what i am getting at 
is that they are lying to us & what’s even more painful about it is they don’t even know that they 
are: when you repeat something over & over again you begin to think it’s real.

Alok Vaid-Menon
what i have learned is they only want half truths — they only want you to live your best life 
(& still grovel to them), be yourself (but not too much!), shine bright (but tone it down!). they 
cannot handle real truth because real truth is a mirror & they cannot look at themselves (they 
prefer to look at you). there will be no camera crews or congratulations when you do that thing of 
excavating yourself from the graves we mistake as bodies, holding it out to the light. there will 
be no celebrations because chances are there will be no one else there. there is a direct 
correlation between giving birth to yourself & your relationships dying. the more you gain the more
you lose. when you unearth her she will not be conventionally beautiful, she will not say the right
things, but she will be dignified nonetheless. 
Alok Vaid-Menon